Hi guys.
Welcome to this lab on the network load balancer.
So as you remember the network load balancer is the one that operates at the connection level.
So just go back to this slide we have the network load balance here operating at layer four which means
TGP and UDP.
You can also assign elastic eyepiece.
So that means you can have a static IP address associated with your low pants with the other types of
low balances you only get the DNS name and NWS control of the IP address and you don't see it but in
this case you can have a static IP assigned.
So what we're going to do is build up a lab just like this one.
I'm going to connect from my Mac on the Internet and we're going to have a network load balancer.
There's obviously an Internet gateway attached to the VPC to allow the connection in and we could have
two instances running and they're both going to be in a public subnet.
And remember the network load balance or whichever low bias the Internet face and low balances still
round the connections to the private IP addresses of the instances.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna build these instances with Apache and just to make it a little
bit more fun.
I've got some files and some use data and we're going to generate some index files that have the name
of the easy to instance and it's going to pull the name from a name file.
So let's just go over to Amazon S3 where we're going to upload those files.
So I mean it's free and I'm going to use my DCT labs bucket.
You can just create yourself a bucket.
It really doesn't matter what the name is and I'm going to choose upload and add files and I'm going
to choose these two files index not 60 and names dot CSP and these files will be available in the course
download for you.
So let's just choose choose and choose upload.
And we've now got of two files so the top one here is gonna be our index or hasty email file.
It will be edited and then saved as Dot hate email as part of our user data and names dot CSP is a file
just with lots of names like first names.
So we're going to assign a first name to our instance and that's gonna be copied into the index file.
So now that we've got these two let's go to the easy to management console and we're going to launch
a couple of instances.
So I'm going to go through to configure instance details I'm going to specify two as the number of instances
I need to use my S3 role.
I've now got this one called S3 free full access which gives me full admin access and you'll need to
have at least read permissions to be able to copy those files to the easy to instance we can then go
down to advance details and I'm going to paste in this user data.
So what we're doing here again we're calling the path to our interpreter bash we're doing some updates
we're installing a patching and enabling it.
We then change to the dub dub dub hasty email directory and we copy these files from S3.
So we copy the names dot CSP file and the index dot text file and what we're then going to do is just
run this bit of code that takes a name from the file at random and copies it into the index file and
saves it as indexed or hasty email.
So we actually get a file our index hasty email file says this is instance Paul or Annabel or whatever
it might be.
So that's just a bit of fun just to make things a bit more interesting but also so that we can see how
the low balances working moving us between different instances.
So let's just click next.
Next security group selects an existing one choose web access and review and launch and launch and that's
it.
So we can now go and set up our network load balancer.
So we go to low balances create load balancer and we're gonna choose network load balancer.
So as it says here you use a network load balance or when you need ultra high performance tier less
off loading at scale centralised cert deployment support for UDP and static IP addresses for your application.
So you can not only have elastic IP addresses associated with your network load balancer You can also
have static eyepiece on your application the network load balance is also capable of handling millions
of requests per second while maintaining low latency.
So whenever you see exam questions that mention you need very high performance very low latency and
lots of connections you might want to think about the network load balancer again you need to take context
into account so also see if there's any requirement for stuff like path based routing or host based
routing because that might push you to application load balancer but otherwise it might be a network
load balance.
So when you're looking at that low latency and high performance so let's choose create.
And I'm just going to call this my MLB and we're going to leave it as Internet facing so obviously you
can change this to internal when you only want an internal load balancer but we want an Internet one
now for a network load balancer you'll see we only have these layer four protocols we don't have the
option for HDTV or hasty CBS.
So I'm going to choose TPP but of course you can still run HDTV hasty CPS applications.
It's just that the information in the hasty teepee headers at last 7 is not going to be recognized by
a network load balancer.
So we can now choose our availability zones and we need to specify at least two availability zones and
IP V for address we can even have a signed by W.S. or we can choose an elastic IP.
Now if you do have an elastic IP assigned to your account you'll be at a selector here.
And if you do that you have to do it for both availability zones you can't have one as a dynamic address
and one is an elastic IP so let's click next and next again and what we need to do now is create a target
group.
So this is a concept that doesn't exist in classic low balances but you need to create target groups
for network low balances and application low balances.
I'm just gonna call 91 and what you can do then is specify some parameters associated with the targets
and collect them under a single configuration.
You can choose instance or IP I'm going to choose instance and then for protocol again it's layer 4
protocol.
So I'm just going to leave it at CCP 80 and health checks you now have more options.
But that's just for the health check.
I'm fine with hasty again.
I'm going to put my healthy threshold down to two and my interval down to 10 seconds and let's clip
next.
Now we can see that we have options to register our targets so that a select way for these guys and
choose ads registered and we'll click next and create.
And so that say it's been created.
Let's go back to the console and you can now see that it's in a state of provisioning so Web alert network
an application load balancer you have low balances and target groups.
So some configuration is done here.
You can edit some information about the load balancer enabled deletion protection cross line load balancing
and access logs will cover these later on in the section.
You can look at some high level information you can then have a look at your listeners and we've listeners
you can actually add additional listeners so I can go in and it has to be a different port.
But I could add in an additional listener and I could say forward to now I only have one target group
but I can even send it to that target group.
So I've now got two listeners if we come back one in Port 80 and one in Port 81.
Now they're both going to the same target group but I could have them going to different target groups
under monitoring.
You can see some cloud Watch metrics for your load balancer.
Now let's go to target groups and what I want to do is go to targets and have a look at the status of
my targets.
So that by and the initial status if you have a look at health checks you can see what the configuration
is and you can change it.
And again you can see monitoring here and this is about healthy and unhealthy hosts.
So let's go back to targets and we're hoping that these are going to change to healthy.
So that's a few minutes but we have two healthy instances now.
So let's go over to low balances and I want to copy the DNS name of the load balancer and then just
open up a tab and paste that in.
So here we go I get my index or hasty mail file which says Hi this is Madeline.
And if I click refresh with a network load balance so it doesn't operate quite like the other load balances
which send connections in more a round robin fashion between instances.
Eventually it will find the second instance and in fact this takes place even if you go to the load
balancer and enable cross own load balancing which it says even the distributes the connections between
targets in the availability zones.
So let's go back and refresh again.
And we still get Madeleine and while we could try doing is opening a new window so then I open a private
window here.
And this time we get Rebecca.
So before we had Madeleine then we get Rebecca.
So what it seems to do is stick you to one of the instances rather than just sending each connection
request to a different instance.
And we're actually going to have a session later in this section on stickiness which is the feature
of low balances which ensures that connections stay on a particular backend instance when they're coming
from one particular client.
So we'll have a look at the behavior across the different low balances in that lab later on.
So that's set for network load balances guys.
Hopefully that's giving you a good understanding and I hope you've enjoyed this lab.
What we're going to do in the next few labs is actually use application load balances I'm going to have
a look at Path based routing and host based routing and lots of the features of the Albee for now what
we can do is just go in and we can delete our load balancer and once that's delete you can then go in
and delete your target group and we can then go and shut down or terminate our instances.
So that's it guys.
I'll see you in the next lab.